In this demonstration, we're going to be configuring organizational tag policies.
We're going to configure tags to identify resources for software deployment,
and we're going to work with tags to configure resource groups.
Throughout this demonstration, we're going to be working with the AWS console.
And to follow along with this demonstration, you'll need your own AWS account.
Now we do encourage you to follow along with these demonstrations.
But remember, anything you deploy to AWS can cost money.
We're back in the AWS console to take a look at some
of the other use cases for tags.
So let's start off with tagging policies.
So if I select the drop‑down next to my name and then
select my organization and specifically the organization we
want to go in the Policies tab.
Through here, we can see tag policies.
If I select Tag policies, we have one tag policy already created.
To create a tag policy, select Create policy.
And we'd follow this basic wizard through,
providing a policy name and description.
Then we can add some tags.
So if I scroll down a little bit, we get this visual editor.
So let's type in a name for our tag.
We can specify whether we want to enforce capitalization for our tags.
If we do that, then the tag environment will have to typed in lowercase.
So let's select that.
And then we can provide some values. So if I select Tag value compliance and
then Specify values, and here we can add some allowed values.
When you're happy with your allowed values, select Save changes.
And here we can see the allowed values.
The next tickbox enforces this tag.
So we can prevent noncompliance for this tag.
Let's select that tickbox,
and then we'll be asked which resources we want to enforce.
If I select Specify resource types, and we'll filter with EC2,
and I'll select EC2 instance and then Save changes.
So with this type of environment, we're enforcing capitalization,
we're enforcing a list of allowed values,
and we're saying it's a required tag for EC2 instances.
Now I'm happy with this so I can say Create policy, and our policy gets created.
So let's see this policy in action.
I've logged into a second account in my organization.
If I select Instances and then Launch Instances,
and we'll run through this launch instance wizard to get to the tagging section.
So I accepted all the defaults for this instance to get to the tagging section.
If I say Add Tag, and let's add a tag called Environment,
and we'll give a value of UK.
So if we carry on through the view screen,
we can review our selections and then say Launch.
And here we've got our first error message.
It says launch failed for environment because we used the wrong capitalization.
So let's go back to the tags, and let's change the uppercase E a lowercase e.
And let's try that again.
If I complete the wizard and try and launch this virtual machine,
this time a different error message saying I've not specified the correct value.
So this is tagging policy in action.
If I was to go back and change the tag to production development or testing,
then this virtual machine would launch.
Remember, tagging policies can be applied to any part of our hierarchy.
So I've got multiple tag policies here.
If I go to Organize accounts,
we can see a root level here plus the list of organizational units.
If I select Development, for example,
and then from the policy section expand tags policies,
we can see TagPolicyOne is attached, but the Globomantics tag policy isn't.
To attach it, we just click on Attach.
Let's look at another example of using tags.
For this, I'm going to go to the Systems Manager dashboard.
One of the things we can do in Systems Manager is create resource groups.
So let's select Resource Groups and here say Create a resource group.
We have the two options for creating resource groups,
tag based or CloudFormation Stack.
We'll leave tag based selected,
and we'll configure a tag that is used then to identify all
resources that should be part of this resource group.
So here's my tag, ProjectOne.
We can also choose which resource type should be part of this
resource group as well by using the Resource types drop‑down list
and choosing from all the different resources that are possible to
be added to a resource group.
I'm going to leave All supported resource types selected.
If you click on Preview group resources,
it should identify all the resources that were part of this resource group.
In my example, four web servers and their associated EBS volumes.
I'm happy with this.
So if I scroll to the bottom the screen,
we can provide a group name and optional description.
Once we've chosen the group name, I can then click Create group.
And it won't take long at all to create the resource group.
So now we've got the resource group created, let's work with it.
If I go back to Systems Manager,
so here's a list of some of things System Manager can do,
run commands, patch management, session management,
inventory, and automation.
All of these things can be targeted against individual
instances or an entire resource group.
If we scroll up a little bit and choose Resource Groups,
we can see our ProjectOne resource group.
So let's select that.
And then I'll choose Execute automation.
And here's a list of common automation tasks that we might want
to run against the entire resource group.
So let's select CreateSnapshot.
Now we can provide lots of details for this automation.
The one thing that I want to select is the parameter.
So from the Select a parameter, I'm going to choose VolumeId.
Other than that, I'm leaving everything in its defaults.
If I scroll down, I can select Execute.
And we can see here, execution is be initiated,
and the overall status is in progress.
If we take a look at the Executed steps section,
it shows the progress of this automation.
If we leave this running long enough,
it will create snapshots of all four volumes that are
members of this resource group.
And we'll be able to see those snapshots through the EC2 console.
So let's have a look at the EC2 console.
And here in the snapshot section,
you can see snapshots that have been created and ones that
are in the process of being created.
So we've used tags to group together sets of resources
into a resource group and then executed an automation
command across that entire group.
Let's have a look at one other use case.
Here I've got a set of deployed web servers.
If I select one of those web servers, we see it's got a public IP address.
If I connect to that public IP address, we see this website.
Now this website is being deployed to my EC2 instances
using CodeDeploy and CodePipeline.
I've integrated CodePipeline with CloudWatch Events,
so I'm going to have to change it in my application code.
If we take a look at CodePipeline, this is my simple CodePipeline with two steps,
a step that identifies a source for the code on a step that deploys the code.
The step that identifies the source of the code is a step
that's integrated with CloudWatch Events.
So let's take a look at CloudWatch Events.
In CloudWatch Events, I've got a whole series of rules.
The rule I'm particularly interested in at the minute is this rule here,
codepipeline mgbcode‑rule.
If I select that, we can see the event pattern.
So we can see the source is AWS S3, the detail reference is CloudTrail,
and what we're looking for here is a particular S3 event seen in CloudTrail.
If I scroll down a little bit,
we can see the events that we're looking for are PutObject,
CompleteMultipartUpload, and CopyObject.
And we're specifically looking in the bucket called mgbcode
and looking for a key called appone.zip.
So when one of these events is registered in CloudTrail,
this target is triggered, and the target is our CodePipeline. So all I
need to do is change my application code, upload the zip file to S3, and
CodePipeline should be triggered and update my application. So I'll do
that and see if it triggers the pipeline.
So I've updated my code, and you can see here that
pipeline has already been triggered.
The source step is executed.
This, in turn, has triggered the deploy step, which currently is in progress.
And then we can see the deploy step has succeeded.
So let's take a look at our website again. So here you can
see the background has changed. Not a spectacular change,
but illustrates the point.
So we've used a CloudWatch event for monitor change in the
code and then to trigger CodePipeline.
But what has that got to do with tags?
Well,
it's about identifying the types of instances. If we
take a look at the EC2 instances,
each of these instances has a tag called ApplicationOne. And if we take a look
at CodeDeploy, we can see that CodeDeploy has got a single application called
ApplicationOne and a single deployment group.
If we take a look at that deployment group,
this deployment group has identified a set of EC2 instances using tags,
specifically the ApplicationOne tag.
So in this demonstration, we've seen three use cases for tags.
We've seen tag policies to enforce tags.
We've seen how tags can be used by resource groups and
then resource groups used for automation.
And here we've seen how the code tools can identify sets of resources
using tags that integrate with CloudWatch Events to identify changes to
application code to trigger CodePipeline to deploy the new code to my EC2
instances with this tag. In this module,
you learned the importance of tags in AWS. And we discussed and
demonstrated several use cases for tags in AWS.
In our next module, we will introduce EC2 metadata and EC2 user data.
So join me there, and we'll continue along our monitoring and event response on AWS for DevOps engineers journey.